Someone:  Hey ! Even of the post is old like posted a month ago please answer if you want! I was wondering if some people with synesthesia would answer this questions ,please number your answers according to the questions so like 1 - answer 2- answer and only answer the questions you are comfortable about ! Keep an appropriate language
1 How did you even found out about synesthesia ? When it comes to mental knowlege, people think about bigger things like autism , adhd ( not that this isnt important ) but i feel synesthesia isnt as known so how did you even found out about what synesthesia is ?
2 how did you found out you have it ? Did you found odd that your senses mix togheter or that you see colours when hearing song , associate letter with coulours , etc and googled your experience , did someone else told you you might have it ?
3 What type of synesthesia do you have ? Projector,associator,chromesthesia,etc?
4 how do you feel about your synesthesia?

If you would like to talk about other things besides the questions i asked , feel free to say anything you want! 

Me: 

1.	When I was in high school, I read Daniel Tammet's Born on the Blue Day, he mentioned synesthesia and this is very relatable because I always feel that I experience something identical to Grapheme–color synesthesia (A=red, B=blue, C=yellow, D=orange yellow, E=orange, ..., X=black, Y=purple gray, Z=brown, 0=o=O=white, 1=black as 12pm, 2=light yellow as 2pm, 3=brown as 3pm, 4=red orange as orange sun light at 4pm, 5=yellow orange as orange sun light at 5pm, 6=blue purple as sun disappear slowly at 6pm, 7=red purple as sun disappear at 7pm, 8=green sky blue as neon urban light at 8pm, 9=gray purple as "weaker" neon urban light at 9pm, also I see the color of the time according to the color of the number) but before that I assumed that this is very normal experience that everyone experience it.

2.	I knew about this since I was a child because I always see the consistent color of alphabets.

3.	Grapheme–color synesthesia

4.	It feel like it is just the normal ordinary things, the same way I always see the color of sky as sky blue. However, it would be fun to make graffiti art based on synesthetes text color association! 

// https://www.reddit.com/r/Synesthesia/comments/1t69mjw/comment/on0eym0/?context=3

My grapheme color synesthesia never change and it been there for long time ago when I was a kid, but I do not sure if I have consistent piano related synesthesia or not. What I'm also sure is that I love to play piano, and I see the color of keys when I play piano actively, for example Mozart Piano Sonata No.11 Mov3 is brown and some parts are pink, Prelude in C minor usually gray but end with bright yellow, E# major chord and D major chord are both green etc. I also not sure if those music color related experience the result of I subconsciously associate my old green piano book, western classical painting, and/or other external context with the color or not. Weirdly that I began to experience music color related experience when I was 13 years old (which was the first time I play piano) instead when I was very young.

The first letter usually dominate the color of the entire words/group of characters. However, if the first letter is white e.g. I, O, 0 etc. then the first non white characters usually dominate the color of the entire words/group of characters instead, for example Introvert is dark green as N instead of white as I, Octopus is bright yellow because both c and t are bright yellow (t is a more "orange" than c obviously) etc. I also feel that the color of the first number usually have less influence over the entire group of number, than the color of the first alphabet over the entire group of words.
